Signal Assessment Report Template — extracted text


===== PAGE 1 =====
SIGNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Conﬁdential 
Version 2025.11.20 
 
 
Table of contents: 
Executive Summary 
1. Introduction 
2. Background 
2.1 
Product Background 
2.2 
Event of interest 
3. Review of data from all sources 
3.1 
Review of toxicology data 
3.2 
Review of clinical studies 
3.3 
Review of safety database 
3.3.1 
Methodology 
3.3.2 
Results 
3.3.3 
Summary 
3.4 
Literature review 
3.5 
Review of external databases 
3.6 
Biological plausibility 
4. Discussion 
5. Conclusion 
6. References 
Appendices 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 2 =====
SIGNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
Page 2 of 6 
Conﬁdential 
Version 2025.11.20 
 
Executive Summary 
This section provides a concise summary of the most important information contained in the 
report.  
The following information is included as applicable: 
• Rationale for the preparation of the report i.e. source of the signal 
-Suggest including relevant information from Introduction section 
• Product specific information 
- Suggest including relevant information from Background section 
• Provide information on the event of interest 
- Suggest including relevant information from Background section 
• Describe all the applicable data sources and methods of evaluation used for the report 
- 
Suggest including relevant information from applicable sections as follows: 
Toxicology data, clinical studies data, safety database, literature and external 
databases 
• Provide key results as needed 
Suggest including relevant information from Discussion section – Summary of important 
points from the evidence presented in Results section) 
• Conclusion statement 
- 
Suggest including relevant information from Conclusion section 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Include the reason for this topic is being evaluated. Some examples of signal source include: 
- 
Routine signal detection practices 
- 
PRAC request 
- 
New signal identified in PSUR and PBRER 
- 
EU referral 
- 
Regulatory authority request 
- 
Product complaints 
2. BACKGROUND 
2.1 Product Background 
Present the product specific information. IB includes the necessary information to include 
in this section.  
The version and date of the reference safety document currently being used must be 
mentioned. 
This section may contain the following information as needed: 


===== PAGE 3 =====
SIGNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
Page 3 of 6 
Conﬁdential 
Version 2025.11.20 
 
o First approval date 
o Pharmacology and therapeutic class of drug and mechanism of action 
o Available formulation and dosing 
o Indications  
o Brief description of the population being treated, if relevant 
2.1.1 Drug pharmacology 
• Pharmacology and therapeutic class of the drug and Mechanism of action 
(Reference: IB 2.3) 
• Available formulation and dosing (Reference: IB 1.2-summarized version, 
3.2: detailed version) 
For Gavreto (Pralsetinib), the following is the template for this section: 
Pralsetinib is a highly potent and selective inhibitor of oncogenic rearranged during 
transfection (RET) fusion and mutant proteins. RET fusions are oncogenic drivers 
in 1-2% of NSCLC, 10-20% of papillary thyroid cancer and, at lower prevalence, 
below 1% across multiple other solid tumor types. Pralsetinib inhibits the ligand 
independent constitutive activation of the RET tyrosine kinase activity and 
therefore prevents downstream oncogenic cell signaling. 
 
Pralsetinib was first granted marketing approval in the U.S. on 4 September 2020, 
which marks the IBD. As of the Data Lock Point (DLP) of the latest Periodic 
Benefit Risk Evaluation Report (PBRER) (DD Month YYYY), pralsetinib has been 
approved in 61 countries worldwide. As of September 2024, Pralsetinib has been 
deregistered in the majority of countries where it was initially authorized, after the 
decision was taken to discontinue global marketing and development of the 
program, except in the United States and Greater China. This action was not taken 
due to any efficacy or safety findings in patients treated with pralsetinib. As of DD 
Month YYYY, the global safety database and Market Authorization Holder (MAH) 
status in the EU and US have been transferred from Roche to Blueprint Medicines. 
Pralsetinib is available as hard capsules and the recommended dose is 400 mg once 
daily. 
 
2.1.2 Therapeutic Indications  
This information can be retrieved from IB (Reference: IB 6.1) 
For Gavreto (Pralsetinib), the following is the template for this section: 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer 


===== PAGE 4 =====
SIGNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
Page 4 of 6 
Conﬁdential 
Version 2025.11.20 
 
Pralsetinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with RET fusion-positive, locally 
advanced or metastatic NSCLC (Gavreto CDS). 
Thyroid cancer 
Pralsetinib is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age 
and older with locally advanced or metastatic RET-mutant Medullary Thyroid Cancer 
(MTC) who require systemic therapy and locally advanced or metastatic RET fusion- 
positive thyroid cancer who require systemic therapy and who are radioactive iodine 
refractory (if radioactive iodine is appropriate) (Gavreto CDS). 
2.1.3 Patient exposure  
This information can be retrieved from PBRER Section 5. 
For Gavreto (Pralsetinib), the following is the template for this section: 
Since the Developmental International Birth Date (DIBD) (20 December 2016), an 
estimated total of xxxx patients have received pralsetinib in clinical trial participation. 
Since the IBD (i.e, 04 September 2020) until DLP of the latest PBRER (DD Month 
YYYY), an estimated cumulative total of xxxx patients have received pralsetinib from 
marketing experience. Additionally, a total of xxx patients enrolled and xxx received 
Pralsetinib through other therapeutic use like pre-approval access, compassionate use 
programs and expanded access programs 
2.2 Event of Interest 
o Provide case definition of the event of interest and add the source as well. 
o If the event of interest is known for the drugs of same class or competitor 
molecules, specify that. 
o Epidemiology, Risk factors, diagnosis and treatment recommendations - 
Reference: UptoDate 
3 REVIEW OF DATA FROM ALL SOURCES 
3.1 Toxicology data:  
Toxicology data relevant to the event of interest, if known event in non-clinical 
studies. (Reference document: IB Section 4.3.3) 
3.2 Review of clinical studies: 
3.3 Review of safety database: 
3.3.1 Methodology 
A search from DD Month YYYY to DD Month YYYY was performed in the company 
safety database. This search was performed to identify all solicited (including 


===== PAGE 5 =====
SIGNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
Page 5 of 6 
Conﬁdential 
Version 2025.11.20 
 
interventional clinical trials, non-interventional studies, market research and patient 
support programs) and unsolicited cases, using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory 
Activities (MedDRA) version XX.X, coded with the following Preferred Terms (PTs) or 
High Level Term (HLT) or High Level Group Term (HLGT) and/or Standardized 
MedDRA Query (SMQ) (narrow/broad) 
3.3.2 Results 
Stratify the cases as per the following parameters: Source of the report (clinical trials-
sponsored and non-sponsored, compassionate use and post-marketing setting -solicited 
and non-solicited or spontaneous), total no.of events, serious vs non-serious, Grade 3 or 
higher events, Grade 5 events, causality -related or not related and outcome. 
Template: 
A total of xx cases (xx events) were reported, of which xx cases were reported from 
clinical trials (xx from sponsored and xx from non-sponsored trials), xx were reported 
from compassionate use, and the remaining xxx were from post marketing setting (xx 
from solicited and xx from spontaneous sources). 
Of the xxx events, xx were serious adverse events, of which xx were Grade 4 and xx 
were Grade 5 events. The most frequently reported PTs were as follows: PT (n=xx), PT 
(n=xx) …. 
Case Narratives for Grade 4 and 5 events 
3.4 Literature 
3.4.1 Describe the methodology 
3.4.2 Results 
o Focus on the most relevant publications only 
o Identify the following information: 
• Background incidence rates in given population 
• Drugs within the same class (event incidence, safety profile as applicable 
to assessment) 
• Drugs for the same or similar indication (event incidence, safety profile as 
applicable to assessment) 
o Present the literature by type: epidemiological studies (prospective, then retrospective), 
published clinical studies, additional case reports. 
Template language: 
On DD Month YYYY, a literature search was conducted in Medline (DD Month YYYY 
to DD Month YYYY) and Embase (DD Month YYYY to DD Month YYYY) for articles 
reporting or discussing the product and safety signal. The following terms were queried: 


===== PAGE 6 =====
SIGNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE 
 
Page 6 of 6 
Conﬁdential 
Version 2025.11.20 
 
No relevant publications were retrieved. 
  
 
OR 
The following # relevant literature article (s) was (were) identified and is (are) discussed 
below. 
3.5 Review of external databases (if required) 
 
3.6 Biological plausibility 
 
4 DISCUSSION 
5 CONCLUSION 
6 REFERENCES 
 
Appendices 
 
